It is very excluded, very convoluted. We love ourselves. We love our clothes associated with us.
And with the others are less, less, and the part is kind of ridiculous. That is like we have the
separations.
That is, of course, is complicated. It's a law. It's so special. But it is not enough.
It's because man is connected with ego, self-emotional, deep dong, self-emotional, deep dong, self-
emotional,
self-sentence man, and ego. That's not going to go far. We had that all the time, according to the
teaching.
From the beginning of the time, we had that hope, kind of like screwed with thinking, what we
achieved.
Still we are struggling. Still we can't be like all this. So many challenges go on and on.
We are clashing between all that, these emotions. Really, all the time. Even the external looks so
good, perfect,
nice job, nice hours, nice place, and nice training, all these things. Oh, many times we stop.
What is that? Someday is missing. What is missing? We did not ever take care of our own mind or our
own heart.
That's really the 100% answer, according to the Buddha's teaching.
We take care of our mind. Maybe that external looks maybe not so comfortable, but they are so happy
.
They are hard of singing. Happy, joy, breathing, and devotion. And those great masters stay in a
cave,
a cold cave, up like 17, toward a pit at a Jewish city, and there are so many ice circles.
Ice circles. Circles, maybe, and singing the songs. Singing the song of joy and appreciation, and,
and,
and devotion. Really. Why that happened? They are not still so brave and tired and can't be like
completely become not in the crazy.
No. So wonderful. So beautiful. How these are? That tells us that every walk with our good nature,
then it really brings the capabilities out. We have all had the best part of the capabilities, but
it's trained and trapped by ego.
It's all habit-breath, accelerated. So for that reason, then bodhicitta is so important here.
And then first is the bodhicitta has a truth. Bodhicitta here is reaching bodhicitta and actual
izing bodhicitta.
You all know that. So this first group is the reaching bodhicitta, and that is poor, boneless.
The training of the poor, boneless. May all beings have the happiness and the cause of the
happiness.
I mean, all this is the reaching bodhicitta. So then, of course. And so that's it. And then that is
why.
First is, is poor, boneless. So what is the first one? First, may all beings have the happiness and
the cause of the happiness.
That is boneless, loving kindness. Boneless, loving kindness.
Secondly is, may all beings be free from suffering and cause of suffering. That is boneless
compassion.
Compassion has no boundaries, no limitation. Loving kindness has no boundaries, no limitation.
All the living beings, as I say, say here. And sometimes in the T.J. say, all mother living beings,
all mother living beings,
prefer from suffering, called suffering. All mother living beings, they always have the happiness
and cause of happiness.
So at this time, pray for us. The fourth, we are praying, that all living beings are free, so may
all living beings have the happiness.
That is, we pray, happiness. And then we pray, cause of happiness.
The happiness people, when you get that it's not just happening without any cause and conditions.
That really the cause of happiness is cause. For really it is reason to be happy. There is some
cause.
So that is what really we pray. So that means, in the T.J. open, you pray for the cause and the
result.
Cause and the result. You pray to have the result, for same day you pray to continue to have cause
to be happy, to be joy.
That's so powerful. It's a big mantra. Really, big mantra. Of course, we've heard this teaching so
many times.
We chime this prayer, can it become so casual? But reality, great master, can't give what he's
hearing many times.
This is mantra. Mantra is so special. It's so powerful. A really sincerely thin, reflected mind in
this meaning.
Tell me this. This, how wonderful. This has no boundaries, no limitations, no restraint by ego
claiming that.
And then second is compassion. Again, every living will be free from suffering.
But free from suffering, they have to have some cause to be free from suffering. So, praying for
the cause that will eliminate the suffering.
May all living be free from suffering, call of suffering.
And what is cause of suffering? Cause of suffering is ego claiming, negative emotions, anger,
jealous, hate talk, and doubt, ignorance.
Those are the cause of suffering. One is the cause of happiness. Cause of happiness is joy, peace,
happiness, and loving kindness.
And having those really more respect and appreciation. And we have those in our heart. Definitely,
we can see. Don't have to ask anyone. We will be happy. We will walk calm, peaceful.
We can witness by ourself.